 LINFO root Definition root is the user
 LINFO root Definition root is the user name or
also referred to as the root account, root user and the
to as the root account, root user and the superuser. The
and the superuser. The word root also has several additional, related
One of these is the root directory, which is the top
subdirectories, and files reside. The root directory is designated by a
slash root), which is the root user's home directory. A home
is a subdirectory of the root directory, as indicated by the
directories for users other than root are by default created in
another standard subdirectory of the root directory. Root privileges are the
subdirectory of the root directory. Root privileges are the powers that
are the powers that the root account has on the system.
has on the system. The root account is the most privileged
rootkits are able to obtain root access (i.e., access to the
access (i.e., access to the root account rather than just to
The use of the term root for the all-powerful administrative user
arisen from the fact that root is the only account having
to modify files) in the root directory. The root directory, in
in the root directory. The root directory, in turn, takes its
that is analogous to the root of a tree. The original
keep track of the users. Root always has a UID of
verified by logging in as root (if using a home computer
its name. The UID for root (as well as for all
The line of output for root will look something like root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash.
by logging directly into the root account and staying there. Although
system when using it as root -- much easier than to
the system, and thus the root user is fully empowered. Unix-like
individual(s) will be using the root account. Thus, there is virtually
no safety net for the root user in the event of
routinely using the system as root is the fact that all
in execution) started by the root user have root privileges. Because
by the root user have root privileges. Because even the most
a program is run with root privileges rather than using an
the avoidance of using the root account except when absolutely necessary,
sudo, that provide them with root privileges only as needed and
login. For example, to become root with su merely requires typing
Enter key and supplying the root password. The account of the
been closed. Tasks that require root privileges include moving files or
is not necessary to be root to be able to read
it is necessary to be root to modify them. Root privileges
be root to modify them. Root privileges are usually required for
from a user's home directory. Root privileges are not needed by
home directory. Compiling software as root should be avoided for security
also have access to the root account for use when necessary.
system administrator(s) might grant limited root privileges to some individuals, such
