 Log in / New account  What chroot() is really for     By Jake E
    October 3, 2007     The chroot() system call is often misund
acy library usage.     What chroot() actually does is fairly sim
will effectively have the new root, which is passed as the    si
o files outside    of the new root.     Calls to chroot() do not
 the new root.     Calls to chroot() do not stack, with addition
who can call it as man    2 chroot describes:     This  call doe
l '.' can be outside the tree rooted at '/'.  In particular, the
eruser  can  escape from a 'chroot jail' by doing 'mkdir foo; ch
 jail' by doing 'mkdir foo; chroot     foo; cd ..'.     The use 
'.     The use of the term "chroot jail" in the manpage is unfor
 common misconception about chroot(). It often    gets mentioned
ach of which can have its own root account. chroot() has none   
 have its own root account. chroot() has none    of that sophist
s thread. The patch changes chroot() by setting the current    w
 working directory to the new root if it was not already somewhe
us typical use cases for    chroot(). In addition, as was forcef
at are not underneath the new root. Even if it did not run afoul
ile you can    circumvent a chroot() call, it should not be poss
ld not be possible by using chroot()    itself. It is an argumen
 a pretty    simple reason: chroot() is not meant to be a securi
here are reasonable uses of chroot() for very limited security  
s. Daemons that do not run as root can be placed into their own 
 accessible from within the chroot(), full filesystem access is 
 access is    possible.     chroot() is a useful call, many inst
aintaining an up-to-date    chroot() environment adds an additio
or this article    Security chroot()    Security Jails    ______
g in to post comments  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
   A good overview of using chroot for security can be found at:
erneltrap.org/Linux/Abusing_chroot#comment-273655     > Maintain
> Maintaining an up-to-date chroot() environment adds an additio
en scripts that will create chroot jails;    I'm not sure sure h
ny of them will also update chroot jails.     When you write a c
jails.     When you write a chroot-jail builder-script, it's not
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
UML or a BSD jail. Fact is, chroot is available    on every sing
o persuade me    not to use chroot.     Reply to this comment  W
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Link] (2 responses)    That chroot doesn't work? I can also poin
ies that    have shown that chroot also contained an exploit. Op
, djbdns, and qmail all use chroot, and the use of    chroot has
e chroot, and the use of    chroot has mitigated the impact of s
pread code    exploits.     chroot is not _the_ answer. In all t
dy mistakingly suggest that chroot _alone_ is a    sufficient me
 arguments that say that    chroot shouldn't be used because chr
t shouldn't be used because chroot _alone_ isn't sufficient are 
    and say they didn't use chroot, though they trivially could 
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
    curtailed, not that the chroot use itself was related to an 
Though, like any interface, chroot could feasibly be part of an 
ibed in this thread, use of chroot is questionable when    an ad
icate sensitive files for a chroot'd    environment.)     Reply 
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
st, #47864) [Link]    Nope, chroot() works and this is its expec
s long as you're    already a root. You can for example mount fi
    occasions.     Who said chroot() must provide security...aga
t someone that already    has root privilleges on that system???
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
can give the same effect as chroot but without being able to    
 improve security just like chroot that isn't their    primary p
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
FreeBSD jails and how their chroot jail is a    mini-virtualizat
ource management,    separate root user and accounts, and in the
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
s)    The advice to not use chroot() for "security" is just plai
e is. The proper way to use chroot() in a    security-conscious 
nscious application is:     chroot()    chdir()    setuid()     
nimize, minimize, minimize. chroot()    fits perfectly into that
e because somebody suggests chroot() is useless shows just how  
ractical or even advisable. chroot() is    practical and useful 
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
ly valid argument for using chroot is that you are ignorant or  
user and group permissions. chroot    isn't adding anything to t
e    between having it in a chroot and not having it there? That
 I just don't agree that    chroot is enhancing the security of 
not have it on your system, chroot or not.    Reply to this comm
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
akes    the decision to use chroot, not the rest of the world. T
e    least bit humble, then chroot()+chdir()+setuid()--if it fit
t people believe that using chroot is a hack. Its not    a hack.
asure, not running daemons as root is just as much a    hack, be
t on your    system". Using chroot is, on its own merits, a usef
separate file    system for chroot'd applications is nonsense. I
ens of    daemons which can chroot into empty directories. Sure 
nto empty directories. Sure chroot'd Apache    is a PITA if you'
les. In those cases clearly chroot    conflicts with the functio
bornly run applications as    root because its more convenient. 
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
 [Link] (4    responses)    Chroot definetely has it's uses in t
ty, and putting apache in a chroot is such a layer - and a    go
none-executable (if in a    chroot - there's a limit to what the
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
er isn't present in your    chroot jail. I assume you're talking
ically linked    libraries. Chroot jails I've seen have statical
hared    libraries within a chroot jail and still stop people fr
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
ty, and putting apache in a chroot is such a layer -    and a go
tml) if    the webserver is chrooted?     Reply to this comment 
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
an http or ftp server).     Chroot isn't the be-all, end-all to 
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Au
han yours will ever be.     chroot doesn't add any security, and
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Au
 have it on    your system, chroot or not.     LOL, WUT?     Are
ion normally processes.     chroot() is a limited way to handle 
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
    [Link] (1 responses)    chroot() isn't specified by POSIX, s
Reply to this comment  What chroot() is really for     Posted Oc
.    Reply to this comment  chroot jail     Posted Oct 12, 2007 
   I believe that the term "chroot jail" is essentially correct 
t as it does    not allow non-root processes to escape it, but p
e they    can keep omnipotent root in "chroot jail" know nothing
an keep omnipotent root in "chroot jail" know nothing about *nix
nix.     So, usefulness of "chroot jail" from the security point
lities leading to gaining the root    access.     If you have to
e some suid programs in the chroot environment, you    can use S
ug can be used to    gain the root access.    Reply to this comm
.    Reply to this comment  Chroot is useful for security purpos
01 (guest, #3011) [Link]    Chroot can mitigate a large number o
enames. If Adobe has used a chroot jail, this would    have been
     Because of the lack of chroot jail, it could be escalated t
ity tool misused, including chroot, can cause more problems    t
problems    than it solves. chroot is not a sandbox for running 
be used as such. That said, chroot is a valuable part of a    go
ften boot from a    CD, and chroot to the hard drive), and other
