                              root Definition       root is the 
        root Definition       root is the user name or account t
   is also referred to as the root account, root user and the su
erred to as the root account, root user and the superuser.      
 the superuser.      The word root also has several additional, 
tems.     One of these is the root directory, which is the top l
tories, and files reside. The root directory is                 
 slash ( / ).     Another is /root (pronounced slash root), whic
er is /root (pronounced slash root), which is the root user's ho
ced slash root), which is the root user's home       directory. 
 it logs into a system.      /root is a subdirectory of the root
root is a subdirectory of the root directory, as indicated by th
ectories for users other than root are by       default created 
          subdirectory of the root directory.     Root privilege
ry of the root directory.     Root privileges are the powers tha
leges are the powers that the root account has on the system.   
unt has on the system.    The root account is the most privilege
iles and commands). Among     root's powers are the ability to m
t are by default reserved for root.     A rootkit is a set of so
ault reserved for root.     A rootkit is a set of software tools
s when desired. Well designed rootkits    are able to obtain roo
ootkits    are able to obtain root access (i.e., access to the r
t access (i.e., access to the root account rather     than just 
ies.      The use of the term root for the all-powerful administ
ave arisen from the fact that root is the only account having wr
ssion to modify files) in the root directory.      The root dire
 the root directory.      The root directory, in turn, takes its
tory that is analogous to the root of a                         
 keep track of the     users. Root always has a UID of zero. Thi
 verified by logging    in as root (if using a home computer or 
   its name.      The UID for root (as well as for all other use
                   output for root will look something like     
 will look something like     root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash. T
something like     root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash. The first co
ing like     root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash. The first column s
 by logging directly into the root account and staying there.   
ke system when using    it as root -- much easier than to damage
e the system, and thus the    root user is fully empowered. Unix
dividual(s) will be using the root account. Thus, there is virtu
ally    no safety net for the root user in the event of a carele
routinely using the system as root is the fact     that all proc
xecution) started      by the root user have root privileges. Be
ed      by the root user have root privileges. Because even the 
em when a program is run with root     privileges rather than us
is the avoidance of using the root account except when      abso
logging into the system    as root, administrators should log in
do, that provide them    with root privileges only as needed and
       For example, to become root with su merely requires typin
ter     key and supplying the root password. The account of the 
losed.     Tasks that require root privileges include moving fil
it is     not necessary to be root to be able to read most confi
                        to be root to modify them.       Root pr
be root to modify them.       Root privileges are usually requir
from a user's home directory. Root privileges are     not needed
ectory. Compiling software as root should be avoided for        
 will also have access to the root account for use when necessar
trator(s) might grant limited root privileges to some           
